# Vehicle-Survey

This is a new line


Vehicle-Survey is an application that analyzes data records generated by vehicle counter sensors, it is used to generate some 
analysis reports like, 
* Number of cars passed in different directions, in different time slots
* Distance between cars during the day.
* Average speed of the cars in different direction and time frames.

The application is divided into different modules, as follows
* Data reader: It reads records from the given data source, it is designed to support plugging different data readers; the current implementation reads from files. Also, to support different strategies for handling invalid records, data reader composes a handler, the current implementation stops with first invalid record. This module is responsible for the following
	* Reads records from a file.
	* Validates the loaded records. 
* Record processor:  It processes the raw data loaded by the data reader. To store the processed records, the processor uses a composed collector; the application can be extended to support plugging different collectors like for example file-based collector. The current implementation uses memory-based collector. This processor does the following
	* Processes chunk of records to detect the direction.
	* Validates the sequence of records, so for example 2 successive records from sensor B should be considered as invalid data. 
	* Detects the change in reading day.
* Analyzer: it analyses vehicle records to generate the required reports. I used Command Pattern to implement the required reports, this module does the following
	* It uses a command factory to generate the command based on the required feature; this command is used to run the required report.
	* Generates a summary from the generated result, like for example the max and min vehicle speed.
* Analysis result exporter: it exports the result of analysis to files.

In this challenge I used **Java 8**, and unit testing libraries like **JUnit**, **Mockito**, and **Hamcrest**.
Also, I followed different best practices of Object-Oriented design and programming. For example
* Test-Driven Development (**TDD**)
* Design patterns
  * **Visitor** design pattern (to support printing the different types of analysis results)
  * **Command** design pattern (for executing different analysis features)
  * **Template** design pattern(used in different modules)
  * **Builder** design pattern
  * **Facade** design pattern
* Followed **SOLID** principles (five basic principles of Object-Oriented programming and design). 
* Used new Java 8 features, like Lambda, Functional interface, Streams, ...
